README.md, before:

To run the code on the teach servers, we used the 'scp' command as we're users of mac.
To copy files, scp <file_name> sXXXXXXX@jupiter.csit.rmit.edu.au:<destination_directory_name> and to copy directories scp -r <source_directory_name> sXXXXXXX@jupiter.csit.rmit.edu.au:<destination_directory_name>

After copying the files to the teaching servers, they can be run by going to the right directory by using the 'cd' command.
To run the task 1 which is multithreaded multiple file copying, the following command has to be executed: ./mmcopier <number_of_files> source_dir destination_dir
To run the task 2 which is multithreaded single file copying, the following command has to be executed: ./mscopier <n> input_file output_file
An input_file is already present in the code which is known as gen.txt, output_file can be any .txt file and it will be generated.
README.md

Project Title
Multithreading & Synchronisation

Introduction
This project involves developing a multithreaded program in C to perform file copying tasks using synchronization mechanisms such as mutexes and condition variables. The project consists of two tasks:
Task 1: Multithreaded multiple file copying
Task 2: Multithreaded single file copying, emulating a producer-consumer problem.

Compilation Instructions
To compile both tasks, run the following commands:
Firstly using the Makefile to make the files required for the tasks:
make all # Compiles both mmcopier and mscopier
make clean # Cleans up the build files

Execution Instructions
Task 1: Multithreaded Multiple File Copying
Run the following command:
./mmcopier <number_of_files> <source_dir> <destination_dir>
number_of_files: Number of files to copy (must be between 1 and 10).
source_dir: The directory containing the source files (e.g., source_dir/source1.txt).
destination_dir: The target directory where the files will be copied. If no target directory present, program will create one.

Task 2: Multithreaded Single File Copying
To generate a random <source_file> of words for this task, just change directory to the directory 'words' and execute the following commands:
chmod +x generate_text.sh
./generate_text.sh <number_of_words> > <source_file>
To generate just random words use these commands after being in the directory 'words':
chmod +x generate_text.sh
./generate_text.sh <number_of_words>

To execute the task run the following command:
./mscopier <n> <source_file> <destination_file>
n: Number of threads to use (must be between 2 and 10).
source_file: The file to be copied.
destination_file: The target file. If no target file present, program will create one.

Lock and Synchronization Details
Task 1: mmcopier.c
Locking Mechanism:
No explicit locking is required in this task as each thread operates independently on its own file.

Task 2: mscopier.c
Locking Mechanism:
pthread_mutex_t is used to protect access to the shared queue (queue.mutex).
pthread_cond_t is used for condition variables:
queue.not_empty: Signaled when the queue is not empty.
queue.not_full: Signaled when the queue is not full.

Critical Sections:
Locks are implemented around critical sections in reader_thread and writer_thread to prevent race conditions.

File Transfer to Server
To transfer files to the server, use the following scp commands:
To copy files:
scp <file*name> <server_name>:<destination_directory_name>
To copy directories:
scp -r <source_directory_name> <server_name>:<destination_directory_name>

Memory Leak Checks
To check for memory leaks, we used valgrind. After copying the files to server and navigating to that directory, run the following commands:
For memory leaks in mmcopier.c:
valgrind --track-origins=yes --leak-check=full --show-leak-kinds=all ./mmcopier <number_of_files> <source_dir> <destination_dir> 
For memory leaks in mscopier.c:
valgrind --track-origins=yes --leak-check=full --show-leak-kinds=all ./mscopier <n> <source_file> <destination_file>
Results indicate that there are no memory leaks, as all heap blocks were freed, and no errors were detected.

Contact Information
Group Members:
Member 1: Harriet Matthew, s3933558
Member 2: Lakshay Arora, s3988616

Commit message:

updated readme with exact lock specifics

README.md, after:

To run the code on the teach servers, we used the 'scp' command as we're users of mac.
To copy files, scp <file_name> sXXXXXXX@jupiter.csit.rmit.edu.au:<destination_directory_name> and to copy directories scp -r <source_directory_name> sXXXXXXX@jupiter.csit.rmit.edu.au:<destination_directory_name>

After copying the files to the teaching servers, they can be run by going to the right directory by using the 'cd' command.
To run the task 1 which is multithreaded multiple file copying, the following command has to be executed: ./mmcopier <number_of_files> source_dir destination_dir
To run the task 2 which is multithreaded single file copying, the following command has to be executed: ./mscopier <n> input_file output_file
An input_file is already present in the code which is known as gen.txt, output_file can be any .txt file and it will be generated.
README.md

Project Title
Multithreading & Synchronisation

Introduction
This project involves developing a multithreaded program in C to perform file copying tasks using synchronization mechanisms such as mutexes and condition variables. The project consists of two tasks:
Task 1: Multithreaded multiple file copying
Task 2: Multithreaded single file copying, emulating a producer-consumer problem.

Compilation Instructions
To compile both tasks, run the following commands:
Firstly using the Makefile to make the files required for the tasks:
make all # Compiles both mmcopier and mscopier
make clean # Cleans up the build files

Execution Instructions
Task 1: Multithreaded Multiple File Copying
Run the following command:
./mmcopier <number_of_files> <source_dir> <destination_dir>
number_of_files: Number of files to copy (must be between 1 and 10).
source_dir: The directory containing the source files (e.g., source_dir/source1.txt).
destination_dir: The target directory where the files will be copied. If no target directory present, program will create one.

Task 2: Multithreaded Single File Copying
To generate a random <source_file> of words for this task, just change directory to the directory 'words' and execute the following commands:
chmod +x generate_text.sh
./generate_text.sh <number_of_words> > <source_file>
To generate just random words use these commands after being in the directory 'words':
chmod +x generate_text.sh
./generate_text.sh <number_of_words>

To execute the task run the following command:
./mscopier <n> <source_file> <destination_file>
n: Number of threads to use (must be between 2 and 10).
source_file: The file to be copied.
destination_file: The target file. If no target file present, program will create one.

Lock and Synchronization Details
Task 1: mmcopier.c
Locking Mechanism:
No explicit locking is required in this task as each thread operates independently on its own file.

Task 2: mscopier.c
Locking Mechanism:
pthread_mutex_t is used to protect access to the shared queue (queue.mutex).
pthread_cond_t is used for condition variables:
queue.not_empty: Signaled when the queue is not empty.
queue.not_full: Signaled when the queue is not full.
File: mscopier.c
Line 40: A mutex lock pthread_mutex_t mutex is initialized to protect access to the shared queue structure. This lock prevents race conditions when multiple threads access or modify the queue simultaneously.
Line 41: Two condition variables, pthread_cond_t not_empty and pthread_cond_t not_full, are initialized. These variables are used to manage the state of the queue:
not_empty is signaled when the queue has data, allowing writer threads to consume it.
not_full is signaled when space is available in the queue, allowing reader threads to produce more data.
Line 45: Another mutex eof_mutex is initialized to protect the end-of-file status (eof_status) and the next line to write (next_line_to_write).
Critical Sections:
Locks are implemented around critical sections in reader_thread and writer_thread to prevent race conditions.
Reader Thread (reader_thread function):
Lines 61-64: The queue mutex (queue.mutex) is locked to check if the queue is full before adding data. If the queue is full, it waits on the not_full condition.
Lines 80-88: The mutex is unlocked, and the not_empty condition is signaled to notify writer threads that there is data available in the queue.
Writer Thread (writer_thread function):
Lines 104-107: The queue mutex (queue.mutex) is locked to check if the queue is empty before removing data. If the queue is empty and EOF is reached, the thread exits.
Lines 123-127: The mutex eof_mutex is locked to ensure that the next line to be written is in sequence.
Lines 132-136: After the line is written to the destination file, the mutex is unlocked, and the not_full condition is signaled to notify reader threads that space is available in the queue.
File Transfer to Server
To transfer files to the server, use the following scp commands:
To copy files:
scp <file\*name> <server_name>:<destination_directory_name>
To copy directories:
scp -r <source_directory_name> <server_name>:<destination_directory_name>

Memory Leak Checks
To check for memory leaks, we used valgrind. After copying the files to server and navigating to that directory, run the following commands:
For memory leaks in mmcopier.c:
valgrind --track-origins=yes --leak-check=full --show-leak-kinds=all ./mmcopier <number_of_files> <source_dir> <destination_dir>
For memory leaks in mscopier.c:
valgrind --track-origins=yes --leak-check=full --show-leak-kinds=all ./mscopier <n> <source_file> <destination_file>
Results indicate that there are no memory leaks, as all heap blocks were freed, and no errors were detected.

Contact Information
Group Members:
Member 1: Harriet Matthew, s3933558
Member 2: Lakshay Arora, s3988616
